# Bulldog
An exploration into the efficacy of AI tools for programming by Ben Gaudreau.


## Introduction
> “If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a
> hundred battles."
<div align="right">
  -Sun Tzu
</div>

---

There is no denying the explosive growth of artificial intelligence. In less
than half a decade, the entire field of computer science as a field has been
upended in ways never before seen. Recognizing that the practice of teaching
computer science has struggled to keep pace with its developments, this
repository serves as an archive of experiments and reflections undertaken as a
senior of Computer Science at the University of Southern Maine for COS 420: 
Object Oriented Design instructed by David Levine.

The Bulldog assignment was originally given to first-year computer science
students at Kettering University as a variation of the more common assignment
of coding the game of [Pig](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pig_(dice_game)). Such
an assignment on its own is rather straightforward for even an amateur
programmer. However, it provides an excellent training ground to test the limits
of generative AI; analyzing where they fall short, what they excel in, and
whether they're truly suitable for their current and proposed uses in personal,
commercial, and enterprise settings is crucial to furthering our understanding
of these technologies.


## Disclosure of AI Usage
Given that this is an exploration into artificial intelligence, AI tools have
been utilized in the development of a majority of the software found within this
repository. Documentation within the source code indicates which classes have,
to any extent, been generated by such tools.
  
It needs to be stressed, however, that every report in these iterations contains
no such influence from AI tools. These reflections entirely represent my own
observations, thoughts, and opinions as a person. Despite my biases, the use of
artificial intelligence was for purely educational purposes, as I'm sure will
become apparent the more you poke around in here. :)


## Getting Started
The repository is structured as follows:  
* Archive of programs
  * Individual program folders
    * Source code
      * Java classes and programs (.java file(s))
    * Report (.pdf file)
    * README with the programming assignment's details
* The original Bulldog assignment instructions
* Repository README <-- (you are here)
  
To run the source code of a given program, copy the .java files from its
respective src folder into a new Java Project. Please note that each program
is its own discrete iteration. Combining files from two different iterations is
certain to result in unintended behavior.

## Special Thanks
This project is the culmination of several months of research into artificial
intelligence and its applications. The topic is undoubtedly divisive, and there
are arguments and perspectives that simply could not be addressed within the
scope of this project. Those conversations still need to be had.

Regardless, I would like to thank those who have helped me see this
through to the end:
* David Levine and the rest of the staff at the University of Southern Maine's
    Department of Computer Science, for providing me with the space and time to
    grow, both in the field of computer science and as a person.
* My dearest friends, who I have subjected to many conversations on the subject
    matter over the course of this project, in addition to being 
* Gizmo and Maru, the two cats that I live with, for being playful furballs
    and loving pets.
* And lastly, thank you for taking the time to explore my work.
